Stable version of the HYBMOD toolbox for hybrid modeling

Demo file "Pichiademo" can be run to train a pichia hybrid model

Associated articles:

Pinto, J.; Ramos, J.R.C.; Costa, R.S.; Oliveira, R. Hybrid Deep
Modeling of a GS115 (Mut+) (2023) Pichia pastoris Culture with
State–Space Reduction. Fermentation 2023, 9, 643.
https://doi.org/10.3390/fermentation9070643

Pinto, J.; Ramos, J.R.C.; Costa, R.S.; Oliveira, R. (2023) A General
Hybrid Modeling Framework for Systems Biology Applications: Combining
Mechanistic Knowledge with Deep Neural Networks under the SBML
Standard. AI, 4, 303-318. https://doi.org/10.3390/ai4010014

José Pinto, Rafael S Costa, Leonardo Alexandre, João Ramos, Rui
Oliveira (2023) SBML2HYB: a Python interface for SBML compatible
hybrid modeling, Bioinformatics, Volume 39, Issue 1, January, btad044,
https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btad044

José Pinto, Mykaella Mestre, J. Ramos, Rafael S. Costa, Gerald
Striedner, Rui Oliveira (2022) A general deep hybrid model for
bioreactor systems: Combining first principles with deep neural
networks, Computers & Chemical Engineering, Volume 165, 2022,107952,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compchemeng.2022.107952

José Pinto, Cristiana Rodrigues de Azevedo, Rui Oliveira, Moritz von
Stosch (2019) A bootstrap-aggregated hybrid semi-parametric modeling
framework for bioprocess development, Bioprocess and biosystems
engineering, 42(11), pp 1853-1865

Rui MC Portela, Moritz von Stosch, Rui Oliveira (2018) Hybrid
semiparametric systems for quantitative sequence-activity modeling of
synthetic biological parts, Synthetic Biology, 3 (1)

Rodolfo Marques, Moritz von Stosch, Rui MC Portela, Cristiana AV
Torres, Sílvia Antunes, Filomena Freitas, Maria AM Reis, Rui Oliveira
(2017) Hybrid modeling of microbial exopolysaccharide (EPS)
production: The case of Enterobacter A47, Journal of biotechnology, pp
61-70

von Stosch, M, Oliveira, R, Peres, J, de Azevedo, SF (2013) Hybrid
semi-parametric modeling in process systems engineering: Past, Present
and Future, Comput Chem Eng, 60, pp 86-101

Moritz von Stosch, Jan‐Martijn Hamelink, Rui Oliveira (2016) Toward
intensifying design of experiments in upstream bioprocess development:
An industrial Escherichia coli feasibility study, Biotechnology
progress, 32(5), pp 1343-1352

Ricardo, AR., Oliveira, R., Velizarov, S., Reis, MAM., Crespo, JG
(2012) Hybrid modeling of counterion mass transfer in a
membrane-supported biofilm reactor, Biochem Eng J, 62, pp 22-33

Von Stosch M, Davy S, Francois K, Galvanauskas V, Hamelink JM,
Luebbert A, Mayer M, Oliveira R, O'Kennedy R, Rice P, Glassey J.
(2014) Hybrid modeling for quality by design and PAT-benefits and
challenges of applications in biopharmaceutical industry. Biotechnol
J. 2014 Jun;9(6):719-26. doi: 10.1002/biot.201300385. Epub 2014 May 8.
PMID: 24806479

Ferreira, AR, Dias, JML, von Stosch, M, Clemente, J, Cunha, AE,
Oliveira, R (2013) Fast development of Pichia pastoris GS115 Mut+
cultures employing batch-to-batch control and hybrid semi-parametric
modeling, Bioprocess Biosyst Eng, pp 1-11

von Stosch, M., Oliveira, R., Peres, J., de Azevedo, S.F. A novel
identification method for hybrid (N)PLS dynamical systems with
application to bioprocesses (2011), Expert Syst Appl, 38(9), pp
10862-10874

von Stosch, M., de Azevedo, S.F., Oliveira, R., Modelling biochemical
networks with intrinsic time delays: a hybrid semi-parametric approach
(2010), BMC Syst Biol, 4, art. no. 131

von Stosch, M, Oliveira, R., Peres, J., de Azevedo, S.F. A hybrid
modeling framework for PAT: Application to Bordetella pertussis
cultures (2012) Biotechnol Prog, 28(1), pp 284-91

Carinhas, N., Bernal, V., Teixeira, A.P., Carrondo, M.J.T., Alves,
P.M., Oliveira, R. Hybrid metabolic flux analysis: combining
stoichiometric and statistical constraints to model the formation of
complex recombinant products (2011), BMC Syst Biol, 5, art. no. 34

Peres, J., Oliveira, R., de Azevedo, S.F. Bioprocess hybrid
parametric/nonparametric modelling based on the concept of mixture of
experts (2008) Biochem Eng J, 39 (1), pp. 190-206.

Teixeira, A.P., Alves, C., Alves, P.M., Carrondo, M.J.T., Oliveira, R.
Hybrid elementary flux analysis/nonparametric modeling: Application
for bioprocess control (2007) BMC Bioinformatics, 8, art. no. 30

Teixeira, A.P., Carinhas, N., Dias, J.M.L., Cruz, P., Alves, P.M.,
Carrondo, M.J.T., Oliveira, R. Hybrid semi-parametric mathematical
systems: Bridging the gap between systems biology and process
engineering (2007) J Biotechnol, 132 (4), pp. 418-425

Teixeira, A.P., Carinhas, N., Dias, J.M.L., Cruz, P., Alves, P.M.,
Carrondo, M.J.T., Oliveira, R. Hybrid semi-parametric mathematical
systems: Bridging the gap between systems biology and process
engineering (2007) J Biotechnol, 132 (4), pp. 418-425

Teixeira, A., Cunha, A.E., Clemente, J.J., Moreira, J.L., Cruz, H.J.,
Alves, P.M., Carrondo, M.J.T., Oliveira, R. Modelling and optimization
of a recombinant BHK-21 cultivation process using hybrid grey-box
systems (2005) J Biotechnol, 118 (3), pp. 290-303

Oliveira, R. Combining first principles modelling and artificial
neural networks: A general framework (2004) Comput Chem Eng, 28 (5),
pp. 755-766
